# Generate item-level norms for age, sex, language profile and item dominance

This function generates a data frame with the estimated proportion of
children that understand and/or produce some items for a selected age
range and participant profiles. Estimated proportions and corresponding
standard errors and confidence intervals are computed adjusting for
zero- and one-inflation (see function [`prop_adj()`](prop_adj.md)).

## Usage

``` r
bvq_norms(
  participants = bvq_participants(),
  responses = bvq_responses_vocab(participants),
  ...,
  te = NULL,
  item = NULL,
  age = c(0, Inf)
)
```

## Arguments

- participants:

  Participants data frame, as generated by
  [`bvq_participants()`](bvq_participants.md)

- responses:

  Responses data frame, as generated by
  [`bvq_responses_vocab()`](bvq_responses_vocab.md).

- ...:

  \<[`dynamic-dots`](https://rlang.r-lib.org/reference/dyn-dots.html)\>.
  Unquoted name of the variable(s) to group data into. Norms will be
  calculated by aggregating responses within the groups that result from
  the combination of crossing of the variables provided in `...`. These
  variables can refer to item properties (see [pool](pool.md), e.g.,
  `semantic_category`) or to participant properties (see
  [`bvq_logs()`](bvq_logs.md), e.g., `lp`).

- te:

  Translation equivalent for which the norms should be computed.

  - If NULL (default), norms are computed exclusively for the items
    indicated in `item`.

  - If TRUE, norms are computed for both the item indicated in the
    `item` argument, and for its translation.

  - If FALSE, norms are computed exclusively for the items indicated in
    `item` (same as NULL)

  - If numeric vector, norms are computed for all items corresponding to
    the translation equivalents indicated in this argument.

- item:

  Character string indicating the item to compute norms for. If left
  `NULL` (default) norms will be computed for all items. You can check
  the available items in the [pool](pool.md) data set running
  `data("pool")`.

- age:

  Numeric vector of length two (*min*-*max*) indicating the age range of
  participants to compute norms for.

## Value

A data frame (actually, a
[tibble::tibble](https://tibble.tidyverse.org/reference/tibble.html)
with the proportion of participants in the sample that understand or
produce the items indicated in `item`, or the translation equivalents
indicated in `te`. The output contains the following variables:

- te: an integer identifying the translation equivalent (a.k.a., pair of
  cross-language synonyms, doublets) the item belongs to.

- item: character string indicating the item identifier (e.g.,
  `spa_mesa`). This value is unique for each item. Responses to the same
  item from different participants are linked by the same `item` value.

- language: a character string indicating the language the item response
  belongs to: `"Catalan"` if item in Catalan), `"Spanish"` if item in
  Spanish.

- age: an numeric vector of length 1 or 2 indicating the age range of
  participants (in months) for which the estimates should be computed.
  If a non-integer is provided (e.g., `15.36`, it is rounded downwards
  using [`floor()`](https://rdrr.io/r/base/Round.html).)

- type: a character string indicating the vocabulary type computed:
  `"understands"` if option 'Understands' was selected, and `"produces"`
  if option 'Understands & Says' was selected.

- item_dominance: a character string that takes the value `"L1"` if the
  item belongs to participants' language of most exposure, and L2 if the
  item belongs to participants' language of least exposure.

- label: a character string indicating the text presented to
  participants in the questionnaire (replacing the `item` identifier).

- .sum: a positive integer indicating the number of positive responses:
  `responses` is 2 (Understands) or 3 (Understands & Says) for
  `type = "understands"`, and 3 (Understands & Says) if
  `type = "produces"`.

- .n: a positive integer indicating the total number number of responses
  (useful for computing proportions).

- .prop: a numeric value ranging from 0 to 1 (both included) indicating
  the estimated proportion of participants that provided a positive
  response, adjusted following Gelman et al.'s method to account for
  zero- and one-inflation (see function [prop_adj](prop_adj.md)).
  Additionally, any variables specified in the `.by` argument are
  preserved as grouping variables.

## Author

Gonzalo Garcia-Castro

## Examples

``` r
if (FALSE) { # \dontrun{
responses <- bvq_responses_vocab()

bvq_norms(
  participants = participants,
  responses = responses,
  item = "cat_casa",
  age = c(22, 22),
  lp
)

my_items <- c("cat_gos", "cat_gat")

bvq_norms(
  participants = participants,
  responses = responses,
  item = my_items,
  te = TRUE,
  age = c(15, 16)
)
} # }
```
