# Generate participant information and progress for each response

This function generates a data frame that contains participant-level
information. Each row is a given participant's response and each column
is a variable. The same participant will always be identified with the
same `id`. The variable `time` indexes how many times a participant has
been sent the questionnaire, independently of whether a response was
obtained from them later.

## Usage

``` r
bvq_logs(
  participants = bvq_participants(),
  responses = bvq_responses_vocab(participants),
  bilingual_threshold = 0.8,
  other_threshold = 0.1
)
```

## Arguments

- participants:

  Participants data frame, as generated by
  [`bvq_participants()`](bvq_participants.md).

- responses:

  Responses data frame, as generated by
  [`bvq_responses_vocab()`](bvq_responses_vocab.md).

- bilingual_threshold:

  Numeric scalar ranging from 0 to 1 indicating the minimum degree of
  exposure to Catalan or Spanish to consider a participant as
  *Monolingual*.

- other_threshold:

  Numeric scalar ranging from 0 to 1 indicating the minimum degree of
  exposure to languages other than Catalan and Spanish to consider a
  participant as *Other*.

## Value

A data frame (actually, a
[tibble::tibble](https://tibble.tidyverse.org/reference/tibble.html)
with participant-level information. Each row corresponds to a
questionnaire response and each column represents a variable. The output
includes the following variables:

- child_id: a character string with five digits indicating a
  participant's identifier in the database from the [Laboratori de
  Recerca en Infància](https://www.upf.edu/web/cbclab) at Universitat
  Pompeu Fabra. This value is always the same for each participant, so
  that different responses from the same participant share the same
  `id`.

- response_id: a character string identifying a single response to the
  questionnaire. This value is always unique for each response to the
  questionnaire, even for responses from the same participant.

- time: a numeric value indicating how many times a given participant
  has been sent the questionnaire, regardless of whether they completed
  it or not.

- study: a character string indicating the study in which the
  participant was invited to fill in the questionnaire. Frequently,
  participants that filled in the questionnaire came to the lab to
  participant in a study, and were then invited to fill in the
  questionnaire later. This value indicates what study each participant
  was tested in before being sent the questionnaire.

- version: a character string indicating what version of the
  questionnaire a given participant filled in. Different versions may
  contain a different subset of items, and the administration
  instructions might vary slightly (see formr questionnaire templates in
  the \[GitHub repository(https://github.com/gongcastro/multilex)).
  Also, different versions were designed, implemented, and administrated
  at different time points (e.g., before/during/after the COVID-related
  lockdown).

- version_list: a character string indicating the specific list of items
  a participant was assigned to. Only applies in the case of short
  versions of BVQ, such as bvq-short, bvq-long, bvq-lockdown, or
  bvq-1.0.0, where the list of items was partitioned into several
  versions.#' \* date_sent: a date value (see lubridate package) in
  `yyyy/mm/dd` format indicating the date in which the questionnaire was
  sent to participants.

- days_from_sent: a numeric value indicating the number of days elapsed
  since participants were sent the questionnaire (as indicated by
  `date_sent`) and completed the questionnaire.

- date_birth: a date value (see lubridate package) in `yyyy/mm/dd`
  format indicating participants birth date.

- age: a numeric value indicating the number of months elapsed since
  participants' birth date until they filled in the last item of their
  questionnaire response.

- age_today: a numeric value indicating the number of months elapsed
  since participants' birth date until the present day, as indicated by
  [lubridate::now](https://lubridate.tidyverse.org/reference/now.html).

- months_from_last_response: a numeric value indicating the number of
  months elapsed since participants' last questionnaire response (as
  indicated by `time_stamp`) until the present day, as indicated by
  [lubridate::now](https://lubridate.tidyverse.org/reference/now.html).

- edu_parent1: a character string indicating the educational attainment
  of one of the parents/caregivers.

- edu_parent2: a character string indicating the educational attainment
  of the other parent/caregiver, if any.

- dominance: a character string indicating the language of highest
  exposure (`"Catalan"` or `"Spanish"`), as reported by parents. If
  exposure is identical for both language, "Catalan" is assigned.

- lp: a character string indicating participants' language profile,
  classified using parental reports of language exposure (see
  `doe_spanish`, `doe_catalan`, and `doe_others`), and the thresholds
  passed in the `bilingual_threshold` and `other_threshold`.

- doe_spanish: a numeric value ranging from 0 to 1 indicating
  participants' daily exposure to Spanish, as estimated by
  parents/caregivers. This value aggregates participants' exposure to
  any variant of Spanish (e.g., European and American Spanish).

- doe_catalan: a numeric value ranging from 0 to 1 indicating
  participants' daily exposure to Catalan, as estimated by
  parents/caregivers. This value aggregates participants' exposure to
  any variant of Catalan (e.g., Catalan from Mallorca or Barcelona).

- doe_others: a numeric value ranging from 0 to 1 indicating
  participants' daily exposure to languages other than Spanish or
  Catalan, as estimated by parents/caregivers, aggregating participants'
  exposure to all those other languages (e.g., Norwegian, Arab,
  Swahili).

- completed: a logical value that returns `TRUE` if `progress` is 1, and
  `FALSE` otherwise.

## Author

Gonzalo Garcia-Castro

## Examples

``` r
if (FALSE) { # \dontrun{
responses <- bvq_responses_vocab()

logs <- bvq_logs(responses = responses)
} # }
```
