# Generate participant information and progress for each response

This function generates a data frame with the vocabulary of each
participant (keeping longitudinal data from the same participant in
different rows). Comprehensive and productive vocabulary sizes are
computed as raw counts (`*_count`) and as proportions `*_prop`.

## Usage

``` r
bvq_vocabulary(
  participants = bvq_participants(),
  responses = bvq_responses_vocab(participants),
  ...,
  .scale = "prop"
)
```

## Arguments

- participants:

  Participants data frame, as generated by
  [`bvq_participants()`](bvq_participants.md).

- responses:

  Responses data frame, as generated by
  [`bvq_responses_vocab()`](bvq_responses_vocab.md).

- ...:

  \<[`dynamic-dots`](https://rlang.r-lib.org/reference/dyn-dots.html)\>
  Unquoted name of the variable(s) to group data into. Vocabulary
  metrics will be calculated by aggregating responses within the groups
  that result from the combination of crossing of the variables provided
  in `...`. These variables can refer to item properties (see
  [pool](pool.md), e.g., `semantic_category`) or to participant
  properties (see [`bvq_logs()`](bvq_logs.md), e.g., `lp`).

- .scale:

  A character vector that takes the value `"count"` and/or `"prop"`. If
  `"prop"` (default), vocabulary metrics are calculated as proportions.
  If `"count"`, vocabulary metrics are reported as counts (number of
  words).

## Value

A dataset (actually, a
[tibble::tibble](https://tibble.tidyverse.org/reference/tibble.html)
with each participant's comprehensive and/or vocabulary size in each
language. This data frame contains the following variables:

- child_id: a character string with five digits indicating a
  participant's identifier in the database from the [Laboratori de
  Recerca en Infància](https://www.upf.edu/web/cbclab) at Universitat
  Pompeu Fabra. This value is always the same for each participant, so
  that different responses from the same participant share the same
  `child_id`.

- response_id: a character string identifying a single response to the
  questionnaire. This value is always unique for each response to the
  questionnaire, even for responses from the same participant.

- age: a numeric value indicating the number of months elapsed since
  participants' birth date until they filled in the last item of their
  questionnaire response.

- type: a character string indicating the vocabulary type computed:
  `"understands"` if option "Understands" was selected, and `"produces"`
  if option "Understands & Says" was selected.

- total_count: integer indicating the number of items selected as
  "Understands" or "Understands and Says" in both languages.

- l1_count: positive integer indicating the number of items selected as
  "Understands" or "Understands and Says" in the dominant language (L1).

- l2_count: positive integer indicating the number of items selected as
  "Understands" or "Understands and Says" in the non-dominant language
  (L2).

- concept_count: positive integer indicating the number of translation
  equivalents (a.k.a. cross-language synonyms or doublets) in which "at
  list one of the items was selected as "Understands" or "Understands
  and Says". This is a measure of the number of lexicalised concepts.

- te_count: positive integer indicating the number of translation
  equivalents (out of the total number of items the participant answered
  to) in which at both items was selected as "Understands" or
  "Understands and Says". This is a measure of the number of lexicalised
  concepts.

- total_prop: numeric value ranging from 0 to 1 (both included)
  indicating the proportion of items selected as "Understands" or
  "Understands and Says" in both languages.

- l1_prop: numeric value ranging from 0 to 1 (both included) indicating
  the proportion of of items selected as "Understands" or "Understands
  and Says" in the dominant language (L1).

- l2_prop: numeric value ranging from 0 to 1 (both included) indicating
  the proportion of of items selected as "Understands" or "Understands
  and Says" in the non-dominant language (L2).

- concept_prop: numeric value ranging from 0 to 1 (both included)
  indicating the proportion of of translation equivalents (a.k.a.
  cross-language synonyms or doublets) in which at least one of the
  items was selected as "Understands" or "Understands and Says". This is
  a measure of the number of lexicalised concepts.

- te_prop: numeric value ranging from 0 to 1 (both included) indicating
  the proportion of of translation equivalents (aka. cross-language
  synonyms or doublets) in which both items were selected as
  "Understands" or "Understands and Says". This is a measure of the
  number of lexicalised concepts. The specific subset of columns
  returned by `bvq_vocabulary()` depends on the elements of `...` and
  `.scale`.

- contents: list containing the items marked as acquired.

## Author

Gonzalo Garcia-Castro
